# Your Music Depot

Your Music Depot is a small business with the primary goal of music instruction. The physical space includes four small rooms intended for one-on-one music instruction in piano, vocal, guitar, percussion, brass and wind instruments. As well, there are three larger rooms, two of which have a class set of pianos, that can be used for individual lessons or for large class groups. The great majority of students attend for piano classes and for group music classes for young children.

The primary issue that Your Music Depot is looking to solve is scheduling. The owners are a married couple – Mr. and Mrs. Barnes – who are both approaching retirement, and Mrs. Barnes currently schedules all music instruction with an inelegant but functional system of stacks of paper with individual schedules for each of her instructors. Nearly all instructors are part-time and all are scheduled irregularly. Each music instructor has their own skills, credentials and restrictions. These must be paired with an available room that meets the clients’ needs and the clients’ schedules. Many clients come to Your Music Depot as families who prefer their children have lessons at the same time or adjoining times. Typically, Your Music Depot operates according to the school year, with consistent scheduling from September through June with a small break in December and a large break in the Summer. Summer programs may be considered in the future.

Mrs. Barnes’ system involves matching an instructor’s availability and skillset, with a client’s availability and skillset, with an available space. It is a confusing and challenging process. Mrs. Barnes has limited comfort with technology. Prior to Mrs. Barnes’ retirement she would like a proposed and ideally operational system to be able to pass on when she sells the business or perhaps passes it along to her daughter. Mrs. Barnes is really considering the scheduling to be the complex part of this, but if there were a way to tie in financial records that would also be nice.

Also operating in the same space is a martial arts dojo run primarily by Mr. Barnes and a small music shop with music books and other supplies. Though it would be an asset to incorporate these into the same system, the martial arts dojo is technically a different business and would need to be able to be reported on completely separately.
Your Music Depot has developed a consistent and large clientele with no particular ambition for growth. The request for a database system is intended to mitigate some current frustrations and allow ease-of-use and perhaps growth potential for a new owner in the business. If it can’t cover every reasonable scenario related to music lesson scheduling, it is not useful to them.
